# Differential robot with Model Predictive Control

This repository includes the necessary **ROS2 Humble** documents to create a simulation in **Gazebo Fortress**. The project includes:

- A folder `worlds` where the Gazebo simulation files are contained. At the present moment, a single file `diff_robot.sdf` contains the .xml descriptive format to create the world in Gazebo and the differential robot.
- A `launch` folder containing the following files `world.launch.py` which launches the world and the differential robot. `bridge.launch.py` allows the connection between ROS2 topics and the topics published by the Gazebo Fortress simulation environment. `controller.launch.py` includes the necessary setup to send a simple command to the differential robot, mostly for testing purposes. `lidar_listener.launch.py` allows the user to retrieve the value of the LiDAR sensor, also for testing purposes. To run the MPC problem one can use the `mpc_controller.launch.py` file. Then `vehicle_sim.launch.py` includes the necessary commands to deploy both the controller and the LiDAR listener.
- Another folder titled `vehicle_control` that contains all the files that allow enables the control of the vehicle. Specifically, this folder contains three files: `lidar_listener.py` stands for a test file where the LiDAR information can be checked. The file `mpc_controller.py` contains all the necessary functions to solve the Model Predictive Control problem that will allow the differential robot to reach a specific waypoint. Finally, the file `vehicle_control.py` enables a test that will make the robot move in a fixed programmed direction.

